Hello everybody.
So we're talking about larger projects now the first thing to think about larger projects is they require
some forward thinking we need to think about what we need to do, where we need to place things what we
need in order to make this project work.
So you will need to create a folder structure we will need to go ahead and grab some reference material.
There are lots of things that we're going to have to do when it comes to a larger project and whether
or not you're following along with me right now or in the future.
Managing a larger project then is this is going to be crucial to planning out what you're going to do
proper planning and preparation prevents poor performance.
I've missed one of those words there.
So being prepared also to change as the project becomes clearer.
This is one of these key things where you don't want to be absolutely rigid with how you decide to manage
a project.
Now you may come up with a hierarchy system that works and then you decide to import your assets into
a game and that game engine may require a different hierarchy to work properly or you may work with
a team and suddenly your hierarchy needs to change again.
It's entirely possible for that to happen so you've always got to be open to change or as you're developing
the project you suddenly realize that things need to be in a slightly different place and we're not
just talking about like a chess set here where we've got distinct parts.
It could be one object that has many components as well.
So what do we need to do.
Well let's think about it.
The first and foremost is the models.
So we're going to have the pieces.
So we've got the pawns, the rook, the knight, the bishop, king and queen.
So we've got six pieces.
So there are going to be six models at least seven.
We've got the board and there may be an environment that we place it in.
Now I wouldn't go over the top and say you need to model a coffee shop or a room of sorts but maybe
a table for the board to sit on or perhaps put it in a nice environment so that you can show off your
model, It's not great or that inspiring to see models that are just floating in empty space.
It makes far more sense if you can present them in such a way that entices people to look at them.
Then of course we're talking about the textures involved in this section as well.
So we've got the board the pieces and potentially the environments as well.
And when it comes to textures we may share textures across multiple places.
So we may use the same texture that's on the board on perhaps one of the other pieces if it suits and
of course here thinking about those pieces you do have to bear in mind that you could go a step above
the minimum 6 and make 12 so that each side has their own distinct look I'm not going to do that but
I do challenge the more advanced of you to go ahead and give that to go as well.
So your challenge for this lecture go ahead and make a folder ready to store your chess set in, consider
a hierarchy that makes sense to you.
We'll try a few things as we go.
And finally my way is not the way of doing it.
I will be showing you a way of doing it.
If you've got a system that makes sense to you then just go along with that and make sure you're just
aware of where things are and they'll be in a different place than I'm showing on the videos. Pause the video
now and give that's a go. Okay everybody, Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now.
I'm on Windows I'm going to hop over to file explorer and sort out my hierarchy.
Okay so here we are now.
I've already grouped my stuff in sections so I have Section 1 Section 2 Section 3 and section 4.
So I'm going to go into Section 4.
So that's how I'm organizing this because I'm organizing it based upon teaching you guys through a course
you may choose to organize things differently if you are modelling something.
I'm gonna right click and go to New Folder and that new folder is gonna be called chess set.
You can call yours whatever you like inside that chess set.
We've got to think of what's folders what system we can have now.
Could we have everything flat.
I think they'll get messy.
We've got at least six pieces and then textures.
And it might not be apparent on what those textures apply to so I want to separate out certainly the
pieces themselves so pieces from textures.
So we'll put those two things in.
So we've got pieces and textures and thinking about it.
Would you call the board a piece.
I wouldn't.
I'd call it a model we use the term models earlier and since there are six pieces and the board and
potentially one other thing I think seven things in one folder is absolutely fine we don't need to split
that out it's also going to call that models instead.
So I've got models and textures,  I'm prepared to change that later on if we need to.
But I think that's a good starting point for this particular project.
What did you guys do.
Did you come up to a similar solution to myself here or have you done something different if you have
done something different.
I'd love to find out why and where you're going with that's how you are organizing your work.
Please do share over in the discussions and I'll see you all over in the next lecture.